doc: update nge content (#262)
OpenRailAssociation/osrd-website: content/docs/explanation/netzgrafik-editor/_index.en.md

Netzgrafik-Editor (NGE) is an open-source software that enables the creation, modification, and analysis of regular-interval timetable, at a macroscopic level of detail, developed by [Swiss Federal Railways (SBB CFF FFS)](https://www.sbb.ch/). See [front-end](https://github.com/SchweizerischeBundesbahnen/netzgrafik-editor-frontend) and [back-end](https://github.com/SchweizerischeBundesbahnen/netzgrafik-editor-backend) repositories.

> OSRD (microscopic level of detail, based on a in-quality defined infrastructure, depicting a timetable composed of unique train schedules) and NGE (macroscopic level of detail, based on no explicit infrastructure, depicting a transportation plan composed on regular-interval based train runs) are semantically different, but close enough to make it work together.

Reviewer: "in-quality defined infrastructure" sounds a bit weird. Maybe "well-defined infrastructure"? Or "high-quality infrastructure"?

"based on no" sounds weird as well. "not based on any"?

"composed on": the preposition is wrong here. "made up of" would sound more natural.

Maybe instead of the super long parentheses before the main point, a different sentence structure could be used? e.g. "OSRD and NGE data models are semantically different: the former uses a […], while the latter uses a […].".

The compatibility between NGE and OSRD has been tested through a proof of concept, by running both pieces of software as separate services and without automated synchronization.

> The idea is to give to OSRD a graphical tool to edit (create, update and delete train schedules from) a timetable from an operational study scenario, and get some insights on analytics at the same time. The second benefit of using both microscopic and macroscopic level of detail is that OSRD microscopic calculations then enhance the functionnalities and information given by NGE, such as the microscopic simulations or the conflits detection tool.

Reviewer 2: Just suggestions:
```suggestion
The idea is to give to OSRD a graphical tool to edit (create, update and delete train schedules from) a timetable from an operational study scenario, and get some insights on analytics at the same time. The second benefit of using both microscopic and macroscopic level of detail is that OSRD's microscopic calculations checks and improves the functionnalities and information given by NGE, such as the microscopic simulations or the conflits detection tool.
```

Reviewer 3: functionalities:
https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/functionality

Author: @bougue-pe 
Edit: I'm not sure to agree with "checks and improves", as it doesn't actually improve the existing functionalities, but does "extend" the actual scope of NGE.

> The idea is to give to OSRD a graphical tool to edit (create, update and delete train schedules from) a timetable from an operational study scenario, and get some insights on analytics at the same time. The second benefit of using both microscopic and macroscopic level of detail is that OSRD's microscopic calculations extends the actual scope of NGE, its functionalities and information provided, such as the microscopic simulations or the conflicts detection tool.

Reviewer: "is that" can be replaced with a passive form: "Using both microscopic and macroscopic levels of detail brings a second benefit: […]"

"calculations" is plural, so s/extends/extend/

s/information provided/provided information/ (adjective first)

> The transversal objective of this feature is to make 2 open-source projects from 2 big infrastructure managers work along and cooperate with one another with the same goal, which is to ensure a digital continuity on different time scales for railway operational studies.

Reviewer 2: Just suggestion:
```suggestion
The transversal objective of this feature is to make 2 open-source projects from 2 big railway infrastructure managers work along and cooperate with one another with the same goal, which is to ensure a digital continuity on different time scales for railway operational studies.
```

> The transversal objective of this feature is to make 2 open-source projects from 2 railway big infrastructure managers work along and cooperate with one another with the same goal, which is to ensure a digital continuity on different time scales for railway operational studies.

Reviewer: "2 big railway infrastructure managers" would read better I believe.

Maybe "which is to" could be replaced with a simple colon?

#### 1 - Integration in OSRD

> For external use, a [build of NGE is available on NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/netzgrafik-frontend) and is published at each release. In addition to this, OSRD has developed a `standalone` version of NGE, integrated into the source code, which allows NGE to function without a back-end. Finally, to meet needs specific to OSRD, OSRD uses a [fork](https://github.com/osrd-project/netzgrafik-editor-frontend) of NGE (whose [build is also available on NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@osrd-project/netzgrafik-frontend)), remaining as close as possible to the official directory.

Reviewer: I think the `standalone` version is what gets published on NPM, right? So "in addition" may be a bit confusing here.

s/function/work/

s/to meet needs specific to OSRD/to meet OSRD-specific needs/

> Despite the non-compatibility of the front-end technologies (ReactJS for OSRD and Angular for NGE), this build allows OSRD to integrate NGE within an [`iframe`](https://developer.mozilla.org/fr/docs/Web/HTML/Element/iframe). This `iframe` deploys a minimalist Angular application which then imports the real NGE application thanks to the imported build.

Reviewer: "Despite using different JavaScript frameworks" perhaps?

The iframe doesn't contain any Angular app per se, it just instantiates the custom element.

An alternative solution to the integration problem would have been to rewrite NGE as [`web-components`](https://developer.mozilla.org/fr/docs/Web/API/Web_components), in order to import them into OSRD, but this solution was abandoned because of the amount of work it would represent.

NGE, in its `standalone` version, communicates with OSRD through the `iframe` using [`Operations`](https://github.com/SchweizerischeBundesbahnen/netzgrafik-editor-frontend/blob/main/documentation/STANDALONE.md). These messages are sent via DOM element properties:

> - [`@Input`](https://github.com/SchweizerischeBundesbahnen/netzgrafik-editor-frontend/blob/fe3e788499e18054e260c05e714419aeeafc44e1/src/app/app.component.ts#L75): with the `netzgrafikDto` property, triggered when the content of the scenario is updated from OSRD.

Reviewer: That one doesn't use `Operations`. Maybe the `Operations` reference should be folded into the second list item.

- [`@Output`](https://github.com/SchweizerischeBundesbahnen/netzgrafik-editor-frontend/blob/fe3e788499e18054e260c05e714419aeeafc44e1/src/app/app.component.ts#L84): with the `operation` property, triggered when NGE is used.

![Concept diagram](osrd_nge_concept_diagram.png)

NGE is then able to obtain the OSRD timetable as soon as a change is made on the OSRD side, and OSRD is able to obtain the changes made on the NGE side.

#### 2 - Converters

To overcome semantic differences and adapt data models, two converters are implemented:

> - **[OSRD -> NGE]** a converter which transforms an OSRD timetable into an NGE model. The nodes are the remarkable points described by the circulations, and whose macroscopic information (position on the reticular) is stored in the database. OSRD train schedules, `TrainSchedule`, then represent cadenced train lines, `Trainrun`. A concept of cadenced train lines, will soon be implemented to allow conceptual convergence between OSRD and NGE.

Reviewer 2: Not sure: if there is a public issue about cadenced train lines in OSRD, linking to it may make the last sentence more future-proof.

Author: Not available yet too

> - **[OSRD -> NGE]** a converter which transforms an OSRD timetable into an NGE model. The nodes are the remarkable points described by the circulations, and whose macroscopic information (position on the reticular) is stored in the database. OSRD train schedules, `TrainSchedule`, then represent cadenced train lines, `Trainrun`. A concept of cadenced train lines, will soon be implemented to allow conceptual convergence between OSRD and NGE.

Reviewer: - The English translation for "point remarquable" is "operational point". The translation for "circulations" is "train schedule".
- Nodes may be track offsets, so maybe "waypoints" would be a better word?
- Maybe add "in NGE" after "represent cadenced train lines", to make it clear that "Trainrun" is a NGE-specific word?
